Picture your perfect workplace culture.
What do you see?
Are your employees smiling and supporting one another?
Do people enjoy coming to work
and are they engaged and motivated?
All of those qualities define a positive team culture,
and with the right strategy it's something you can create
within your team.
So how is that done?
First, let's dive into the characteristics
of a positive team culture as well as its benefits.
A positive team culture has
several tell-tale characteristics.
First, employees have a shared vision.
Within these cultures, everyone works
towards the same overarching goal.
Second, frequent communication is common
as people are comfortable speaking up,
and they don't shy away from feedback.
Third, employees share positive relationships
as they care for their colleagues
and treat one another with compassion.
Fourth, trust and respect are also high on the list
as employees are confident
and treat one another with dignity.
Fifth, team members take ownership
and accountability for their work.
And finally, people are motivated
and excited about their jobs.
When a team's culture aligns
with all those characteristics it leads
to numerous rewards, both on an individual
and company-wide level.
So, what are those rewards?
There are five primary benefits of a positive team culture.
First, employees experience less stress
since they know what they're doing and why they're doing it.
Also they can work in peace without fearing
that their coworkers will undermine them.
Second, employees display heightened engagement
since they feel supported and understand their part
in the larger team goal.
Third, company performance also improves
since individuals work together
to create well thought-out strategies,
and they remain committed
to putting their best foot forward.
Fourth, a positive team culture is a great selling point
for attracting top talent during recruitment.
And finally, you'll also see increased loyalty.
After all, if you help employees feel like you're invested
in their well-being, they'll be happier
and more loyal to you in return.
Companies with positive team cultures accomplish more
than others and deliver superior quality.
Also, these cultures can be built by any company
regardless of the size, industry, or budget.
So, how is that done?
There are four well-known strategies
for building a positive team culture.
First, create meaning for your employees.
Team members should understand the purpose of their work,
so reinforce your mission statement,
share company-wide goals,
and always give team members context
by explaining how their responsibilities contribute
to the larger goal.
Second, prioritize transparent communication.
Your team members should be kept in the loop
and feel comfortable sharing their thoughts,
so share updates and be approachable
with regular check-ins and an open-door policy.
Also, hold weekly meetings to prevent knowledge hoarding.
Of course transparent communication isn't only about you.
Your team members must feel comfortable speaking
to one another, which brings us to our third strategy.
The third strategy is to foster social connections.
Help your team members develop positive relationships
by allowing them to connect on a personal level.
Consider scheduling potlucks and weekly team lunches.
Celebrate milestones such as birthdays
and team accomplishments in the break room,
and organize team building activities.
Finally, to help your team members stay motivated,
promote learning and development.
Consider offering education courses,
scheduling frequent one-on-ones and feedback sessions,
and encouraging knowledge sharing
among your team members.
Building a positive team culture takes time, effort,
and commitment but it's not impossible.
So keep the benefits in mind
and follow those four strategies
as that consistent effort will make all the difference
when it comes to your team's happiness and success.